>> Now we're going to travel
to another region in Indonesia.
Bali.
And meet one of the kings
of the regions there.
Now he is an energy master.
And the way they've
developed their energy,
their power within,
is by doing something
that we're all told not to do.
Play with fire.
When you activate your
energy, you use fire.
Fire is the life force energy.
It's the captured sunlight that
we all have within ourselves.
>> You offer your body into
the pit, into the flame.
And it purifies and it burns
the different-- some scars,
breaches of your scar
minds, and so on.
And then the person
that emergs has purified
by fire, the physical element.
It's also a practice that they
call the Pancha Maha-Bhoota,
the great five elements.
Then as power and control
over that element.
And so this specific
tradition, they somehow
mastered that element.
And so the king, who is not
a yoga hermit in the cave,
so he didn't have his life
to practice that full time.
He's an official.
So he had to live
the kind of life
that they are expected to live.
And he cultivates these
with what is called,
they have this practice
of these five fires.
You use the fire element
to stimulate and trigger
certain reactions in your body,
in your energies, in your mind
by doing this rituals.
And the rituals are quite
dramatic because you really
have to touch the fire.
It would be like
fire walking, right?
And the thing is
that if you know
how to do it, just like fire
walking, you don't get burned.
And you can think
that it's energy.
You can think that it's
spirit protecting you.
You can think it's
just simple physics.
Whatever the case, you don't
really get burned or hurt.
But undoubtedly,
you are able to,
because of the shock
that you have out of it
to a certain extent, you are
able to enter or to cross
through a different state of
awareness, a different state
of consciousness.
>> And this is really
the point, right?
Is it's not necessarily
to overcome fire.
But it's really to, as
you say, wake up your mind
or to have some realization.
>> Yeah.
Of course, of course.
I mean, that specific
training then
it's part of what they
call the famous Kundalini.
The Kundali training.
It's the pit of
the fire that you
have to plunge the burning
sticks or the fires,
of standing in the pit of
the snake in the kunda,
in the well.
So that the snake
sort of comes up.
So there is a whole ritual that
is both external, allegorical,
and of course, it corresponds
with very specific practices.
>> Now fire helps us to ignite
our superhuman abilities.
It helps to activate powerful
energy within ourselves.
So watch this scene as David
and the king play with fire.
>> During all my years of
research and comparison
of these practices, I met
a great master who refused
to teach me because he only
taught the royal families.
So I tracked down the last
king whom he taught to.
I found him.
And I basically begged
him to teach me.
The king has agreed to
teach you a secret practice
of the royal family.
It's a practice aimed at
awakening what in the east
they call the Kundalini.
The Kundalini literally
means the coiled one.
It's often represented
by a snake, coiled snake.
And the aim of the
practice is to rise it
through the central channel.
It's a universal
symbol, which we
find in many medical
association logos,
such as the American Medical
Association and the World
Health Organization.
This Kundalini is
the key to vitality.
It is a gate to the infinite.
And with this practice,
we are going to wake it.
How do you wake up a snake?
Well, you throw
fire into the pit.
[CHANTING]
To wake up the Kundalini and
the latent power of the snake
inside, the king has
to swallow the fire
into the pit of his belly.
Then I'm going to do it too.
Together?
Wow, that's red hot.
My belly is on fire.
Requires concentration
and a very firm mind.
To fan this fire, just like the
fan is fanning the charcoals.
>> Wasn't that incredible?
Now this master has been
trained for many years
to work with the fire to
ignite internal energy.
People have walked on coals.
You might have seen that in
the beginning of the scene
where they're doing a ritual
called the Kecak dance.
And this is another
way of working
with fire to activate energy,
to push beyond our limits.
Fire has a way of burning
away the unnecessary,
the old energy, to make
room for new energy
and that inner light.
Life force energy is mysterious.
It's the spark behind
your heartbeat.
It's the light in your mind.
It's the current of
energy that moves
through your nervous system.
We need this energy
to move through us,
to do all the things
that we need to do.
The Balinese master,
he has trained
himself to work with
fire, to be able to hold
a tremendous amount of energy.
And this ritual has been used
for thousands of years as a way
to burn off old energy
to cleanse themselves
of old patterns.
And now I'm going to
show you something you
can do to ignite your energy.
Think about a small fire
that's burning down.
What do you do to it?
You blow on it.
And the fire starts to
activate, gets ignited,
gets stronger and stronger.
So to ignite your
energy, your inner fire,
we do a breathing practice.
Now I'm going to show
you this right now.
You're going to do a
fanning the fire practice.
It's a little bit
quicker breathing.
You're going to-- like that.
You're going to pump the
energy through your body
quickly for about 30 seconds.
At the end, we're going
to hold our breath.
I then want you to go into a
still space within yourself
and feel the electricity, the
life force energy circulating
within you.
After we hold the breath
for a few seconds,
we're going to inhale
through the nose
and exhale through the
nose slowly, and let
this warm radiant,
energy circulate
through our whole body.
Are you ready to try it?
Let's do it.
You can put your hands
over your lower abdomen
and breathe with me.
You're going to--
when you exhale,
your belly goes back
toward your spine.
Do it strongly.
Fan that fire.
Two more times.
Exhale, and hold your breath.
Hold the breath.
And go into a stillness
within yourself.
Feel the energy and
the electricity.
Hold the breath.
Now inhale through your nose.
Exhale through the nose.
Go into real slow breathing.
Feel the warmth, the
radiance, the inner light
sparked within yourself.
Breath is energy.
Fire or light is energy.
And we all have
energy within us.
Energy is this mystical force
that keeps your heart beating.
It's the light in your mind.
It's the current in
your nervous system.
It's everything
mystical about yourself.
So when you do this breathing
exercise and ignite inner fire,
you're working with the mystical
force energy within you.
Hope you enjoyed that.
>> Who are you?
Do you know?
Most people when asked this
seemingly simple question
go blank, just as
you did probably.
It is one of life's greatest
mysteries even science cannot
answer.
>> Science has come a long way.
But there are so many mysteries
about the nature of reality
that still science
doesn't answer.
>> Trying to find your mind
inside your body is like trying
to find the internet
in your computer.
You won't find it
because the internet
isn't in your computer.
Your computer is
in the internet.
>> You close your
eyes, you see images.
You hear sounds.
But there's no light
source in your brain
or an audio source in your
brain to project those sounds
and images.
Your mind is mysterious.
In this next
episode, we are going
to see superhumans
who have mastered
the power of their minds.
And what you witness
might seem unbelievable.
So we're going to take
you to a research lab
where David takes Ariel, a
psychokinetic from Argentina,
where they're studying how
this phenomena happens.
Are you ready to see Ariel
move objects with his mind?
>> What's different about him?
>> He's the only psychokinetic
subject I studied who can
produce phenomena under
good scientific conditions.
>> What sort of
psychokinetic is he?
>> Maybe we can figure that out.
Now, I have no idea
how you would even
know for certain
which explanation
is the appropriate one.
>> I have a couple of ideas.
I'm probably going to bring him
to see a league of other people
with exceptional abilities.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> David has assembled some of
the greatest masters that he
knows to help guide Ariel into
discovering what his gifts are
all about.
They come from all
over the world.
And they are some amazing,
amazing people that
have mind bending abilities.
And what they're going to teach
us is how to quiet the mind.
And when the mind is
quiet, we have access
to new potentials and
new possibilities.
>> Although you come from
different continents,
different cultures, I invited
you all here tonight in this
private meeting because you
have something in common.
All of you have found
ways, different ways
to access the infinite.
The infinite field.
This enables each one
of you, differently,
to do exceptional things.
The things you do are very often
considered stuff of legend.
Those are things that excite
people, but also frighten them
a time.
And there are many
people that do not
want the knowledge
that you have accessed
to be of public dominion.
Sergey from Russia,
who uses awareness
to control space and time
in extreme situations.
Ariel from Argentina.
A telekinetic with
a very rare gift.
He is one of the
reasons why we're here,
to try to understand and explain
this gift and the implications
of it.
Marina, a Russian superwoman
with x-ray vision.
We are all here to answer
one primary question.
What are the methods that you
have developed, experimented
with, researched with, that you
deem most effective to assess
the infinite?
>> Through David's
travels around the world,
he's met some great masters.
Let's take a little journey
into self-discovery.
Let's discover the
powers of our own minds.
David mentions the infinite.
The infinite is always
present within the finite.
You are a localized mind
of an infinite mind.
You want to feel the infinite
mind, the spaciousness that we
all have.
Take a minute, and we're going
to do a little exercise right
here.
So for example, there's always
spaciousness within your mind.
One of the things that they
talk about is quieting the mind.
Finding the silence in the mind.
And this is a very
challenging concept
if we don't know
how to do it right.
Now the thing is there is
always silence in the mind.
We just need to learn how
to pay attention to it.
If you notice around
the room, there's
always space between objects.
There's this thing
and this thing,
and then there's
the space between.
Space between floor and ceiling.
Pay attention to that
just for a moment.
And then close your eyes.
And in the same way there's
space between your thoughts,
the thoughts are
like the objects.
And if you pay
attention to the space,
you can start to feel the
infinite within your own mind.
Close your eyes.
Take a slow, deep breath.
And even bring some
space to the breath,
so that when you inhale,
there's a little pause.
And when you exhale, at
the bottom of your exhale,
there's a little pause.
Now at those moments where
your breath is still,
let your mind be still as well.
Feel the spaciousness
in your own mind.
And it's in the
spaciousness that the field
of pure potential of
infinite possibilities
are made available to us.
Take a deep breath.
Notice the stillness
within your mind.
It's already there.
Just pay attention to it.
Up next is Marina.
Marina is a superwoman
that can see
with her eyes closed, by looking
through the lens of her mind.
Marina is unbelievable.
>> Marina will now attempt
to do something unique.
She will access a
very specific state
and enter into
the field of mind.
>> This is a star.
>> Correct.
>> Three waves.
>> You have this
complicated shape.
I don't know how to
say it in English.
I see 1, 2, 3, 4 5,
6 angles and lines.
>> Hexagon.
Same in English.
Hexagon.
Correct.
Now I'm going to put on,
Marina, one more layer.
A thick, black layer,
just to make sure
that what is happening
is happening in her mind.
She's not using her eyes to see.
OK, Marina, I'm going to
put this blindfold on.
Marina, will you also be
able to tell me colors?
>> Let's try.
>> This is a star,
and it's yellow.
>> Correct.
It's amazing.
Not just see, but you
also distinguish colors.
>> This is a square, orange.
>> Correct.
Marina, you want to
try with the book.
>> Yes.
>> I'll go get it.
>> Perform I think.
Perform the following to protect
the vehicle and liberally,
literally or liberally,
l-i-b-e-r-a-l-l-y.
>> It's amazing.
It's unbelievable that
she's reading a book.
>> OK, David, let's
finish please.
>> Finish, finish.
>> It's not an interesting book.
>> It's not a very
interesting book.
It's a car manual.
>> If I understand correctly,
what I'm doing in order
to start to see
with closed eyes.
I think it's needed
to do two steps.
First of all, it's needed to
stop thinking about anything.
That is first step,
is mind silence.
And only when you
feel mind silence,
you need to start to focus on
the object you want to know,
you want to see.
And very important is to
find the correct place
where the card, the
shape or object is now.
Because if you made
your mind empty,
but you're looking in
the wrong direction,
you can see nothing
or some mistakes.
>> Imagine a world where these
tools and techniques are taught
to our children.
They move through life with
curiosity and joy and wisdom.
Kids have a lot to
teach us innately.
They are full of
joy and playfulness.
When I ask my kids,
what did you do today?
They always answer, play.
And Sergey said,
when we play, when
we see the world with
childlike wonder,
we get access to our power
and innate abilities.
We start to get constricted
when we think we know the world.
Knowing constricts our energy
to play, to open our hearts,
to see life with
the beginner's mind.
And this is what Nikolai
and Marina do so beautifully
well, is teach children how to
tap in to their innate powers
within themselves.
>> Nikolai and Marina are
working with these kids
because children
have zero resistance.
So their image of the world,
their system of belief
is not fixed yet.
So it can easily be not
just changed, but expanded.
So Nikolai and Marina
are capable of teaching
normal kids and
even blind children
to learn to see the
world through their mind,
through the senses of the mind.
Sometimes, they call them six
senses or the spiritual eyes.
And it's a learning process,
where they train children
to learn to see their body,
recognizing through touch,
so feeling sensations, and
then gradually expanding these
to all the other
palettes of the senses.
This is now the first day.
We will experiment
for a few more days.
The results generally
are quite interesting.
>> Yeah.
Fantastic.
Is it interesting?
That's very interesting.
>> OK, now, you will do
very complicated exercise.
Very, very, very, very
important exercise.
>> Very important exercise.
You and you close your eyes.
You try to touch the nose.
Yes?
Close eyes.
Don't touch her mouth.
If mistake--
>> Bite you.
>> It's so nice.
>> Don't open your eyes.
Don't open.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
You're right.
No, no.
Yeah.
Very good.
Yes.
OK.
Funny.
Laugh and laugh.
It's interesting.
Easy?
>> So easy?
>> Kids are great, right?
Their minds are so
open, so curious.
Now one of the key things to
becoming superhuman and tapping
into our infinite
potential within
is a flexible,
non-resistant mind.
I want to take you
through an exercise that
will help you to become
flexible in your mind.
Are you ready?
So the first thing that we're
going to do is quiet the mind.
And then when the
mind is quiet, we're
going to be able to move
the mind to different areas.
Let's try it.
Take a few slow, deep breaths.
Close your eyes.
Feel the stillness of your
mind by pausing slightly
at the top of your
inhale and slightly
at the bottom of your exhale.
And when your mind
starts to become still,
I want you to move your
mind to the ceiling
and look down on
yourself meditating
with your eyes closed.
So just put your point of
attention above your head,
and look down on yourself.
Notice the objects of the room.
See if you can see
with your eyes closed.
This takes
concentration and focus.
When your mind pops back
into your localized attention
within yourself, project
it up onto the ceiling,
and look into the room.
See yourself from above.
Take a deep breath.
Come back.
Open your eyes.
How is that?
Could you do it?
That takes practice.
Practice it often.
You can move yourself
just above you.
You can move it to
the side, upper right
corner, upper left corner.
Practice moving
your mind and then
focusing on what you can see.
You can start to get a
sense of what's in the room
and where you are.
In the next journey, we're going
to find some martial artists
that are not only good
at physical exercises,
but they do something
truly incredible.
They start to move their
opponents with their minds.